*this is incomplete*

## Example 1
2g<sup>2</sup> + 11g + 14 = 0

### Step one: Get the first term coefficient and the non-coefficient term and multiply them.
In this case, the two terms would be **2g<sup>2</sup>** and **14**.
Extract the **2** (coefficient) from **2g<sup>2</sup>** and multiply with **14**, giving you **28**.

### Step two: Get a common factor of the number to equate the addition of the two factors to the (in this case) second term.
28 in two factors that when added together make **11** are **7** and **4**.
Now the two factors will act as an **11g** in a more simpler form.

2g<sup>2</sup> + 11g + 14 = 0

ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ

2g<sup>2</sup> + 7g + 4g + 14 = 0

*note: if there is a more simpler form for evaluation, it is applicable, meaning if you find two numbers that are more easily divisble, you can switch places of the two terms due to the commutative property of multiplication.*

2g<sup>2</sup> + 7g + 4g + 14 = 0 `is equal to` 2g<sup>2</sup> + 4g + 7g + 14 = 0

*2 and 4 are more easily divisble than 2 and 7; 7 and 14 are more easily divisble than 7 and 2*

### Step three: Turn the equation into a condensed form using parentheses.
Derive what you can retrieve from the equation and in a way *reverse* the equation.

2g<sup>2</sup> + 4g + 7g + 14 = 0

ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ

2g(g + 2) 7(g + 2)

If evaluating these expressions turns into the previous equation, then it is properly done.
Meaning:
2g(g + 2) **must equal** 2g<sub>2</sub> + 4g
7(g + 2) **must equal** 7g + 14

### Step three: Derive the outside and inside terms from the experssions and place them in their own expression.
y(x)
*y* would be the outside term, while *x* would be the inside term(s).

*important note: both of the inside equations must be the same.*

Meaning:

2g(g + 4) & 7(g + 2)

ˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇˇ

(2g + 7) & (g + 2)

### Step four: Solve

g + 2 = 0
   -2  -2
   
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-

g = -2


\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=


2g + 7 = 0
    -7  -7

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-

2g = -7
2g/2  -7/2

*2g/2g cancels out*

g = -7/2


\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=


g = -7/2, -2
